---
type: spell
sub-type: "Spell"
source-type: "Remaster"
level: "8"
traits: ["[[Concentrate]]", "[[Incarnate]]", "[[Manipulate]]"]
cast: "`pf2:3`"
range: "100 feet"
duration: "until the end of your next turn"
source: "Pathfinder Howl of the Wild"
---
### `= this.file.name`
`= "**Spell** " + this.level + choice(this.traditions != null and this.traditions != "", "<br>**Traditions** " + this.traditions, "")`
`= choice(this.traits != null and length(this.traits) > 0, join(this.traits, " "), "")`

`= "**Cast** " + this.cast + choice(this.trigger != null and this.trigger != "", "<br>**Trigger** " + this.trigger, "") + choice(this.requirements != null and this.requirements != "", "<br>**Requirements** " + this.requirements, "") + choice(this.range != null and this.range != "" or this.area != null and this.area != "" or this.targets != null and this.targets != "", "<br>" + choice(this.range != null and this.range != "", "**Range** " + this.range, "") + choice(this.area != null and this.area != "", choice(this.range != null and this.range != "", "; ", "") + "**Area** " + this.area, "") + choice(this.targets != null and this.targets != "", choice(this.range != null and this.range != "" or this.area != null and this.area != "", "; ", "") + "**Targets** " + this.targets, ""), "") + choice(this.defense != null and this.defense != "" or this.duration != null and this.duration != "", "<br>" + choice(this.defense != null and this.defense != "", "**Defense** " + this.defense, "") + choice(this.duration != null and this.duration != "", choice(this.defense != null and this.defense != "", "; ", "") + "**Duration** " + this.duration, ""), "")`

You briefly call forth the spirit of one of the Wardens of the Wild, the legendary guardians of nature. The warden occupies the space of a Gargantuan creature. When you Cast this Spell, you summon a warden depending on the biome in which the spell is cast (for instance, summoning the Warden of Caverns and Burrows if summoned in a cave, canyon, or other underground environment). In an unnatural environment, the warden summoned depends on the region's most recent or similar natural biome, as decided by the GM.

- **[[Warden of Caverns and Burrows]]:** Speed 60 feet, burrow 100 feet; **Arrive** (earth) *Obsidian Cage* Obsidian stalagmites burst from the earth as the warden surfaces, impaling enemies and trapping them in stalagmites. Enemies on the ground within @Template[emanation|distance:40]{40 feet} take 6d6 piercing damage ([[Reflex]] save). Creatures that fail their save become [[Immobilized]] until they [[Escape]] (the DC is your spell DC); **Depart** (earth) *Blessing of the Depths* The squares occupied by the warden remain disheveled and broken, becoming difficult terrain. The warden affects you and all your allies within @Template[emanation|distance:60]{60 feet} with a [[Mountain Resilience]] and [[Unfettered Pack]]. The duration for both spells is reduced to 3 rounds, but the duration of *mountain resilience* isn't reduced when an affected target is hit by a bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing attack.
- **[[Warden of Forests and Meadows]]:** Speed 120 feet; **Arrive** (illusion, mental) *Idyllic Panorama* The warden's presence unpredictably warps the appearances and perceived distances of creatures and obstacles around it. Each time an enemy within 40 feet of the warden attempts a Strike or Stride action, it takes 4d6 mental damage ([[Will]] save). On a critical failure, the creature Strikes a random target within reach or Strides in a random direction. On a critical success, the creature becomes temporarily immune for 1 round; **Depart** *Fox's Insightful Trickery* The warden affects you and all your allies within 60 feet with [[Blur]] and [[Truesight]]. The duration for both spells is reduced to 3 rounds.
- **[[Warden of Oceans and Rivers]]:** Speed 60 feet, swim 120 feet; **Arrive** *I Am the Tide* If the warden is summoned in a body of water, it creates a churning whirlpool that deals 10d6 bludgeoning damage to all creatures within @Template[emanation|distance:30]{30 feet} (basic Reflex save). A creature that fails this save is pulled 15 feet closer to the warden (30 feet on a critical failure). If the warden is summoned outside of a body of water, it creates a wave of water that deals 8d6 bludgeoning damage to all creatures within 30 feet (basic Reflex save). A creature that fails this save is pushed 10 feet away from the warden; **Depart** *Acclimation to the Deep* The warden affects you and your allies within 60 feet with [[Feet to Fins]] and [[Water Breathing]]. The duration for both spells is reduced to 3 rounds, but a creature affected by *feet to fins* retains its normal land Speed.
- **[[Warden of Peaks and Skies]]:** Speed 60 feet, fly 240 feet; **Arrive** *Precipice Plummet* The warden appears, flying downward from the sky and sends a shockwave where she lands. Creatures within @Template[emanation|distance:20]{20 feet} take 10d6 sonic damage ([[Fortitude]] save). Creatures that critically fail their saves are [[Sickened]] 1; **Depart** (auditory) *Song of the Skies* The warden affects you and all your allies within 60 feet with [[Fly]] and [[Unfettered Movement]]. The duration for both spells is reduced to 3 rounds.

**Source:** `= this.source` (`= this.source-type`)
