---
type: item
source-type: "Remaster"
level: "11"
traits: ["[[Deadly d10]]", "[[Volley 30]]"]
price: "{'gp': 1300}"
usage: "held-in-one-plus-hands"
bulk: "2"
source: "Pathfinder GM Core"
---
### `= this.file.name`
**Item** `= this.level`
`= choice(this.traits != null and length(this.traits) > 0, join(this.traits, " "), "")`

`= choice(this.price != null and this.price != "", "**Price** " + this.price, "") + choice(this.usage != null and this.usage != "", choice(this.price != null and this.price != "", "; ", "") + "**Usage** " + this.usage, "") + choice(this.bulk != null and this.bulk != "", choice(this.price != null and this.price != "" or this.usage != null and this.usage != "", "; ", "") + "**Bulk** " + this.bulk, "")`
`= choice(this.activate != null and this.activate != "", "**Activate** " + this.activate, "")`

This *+2 striking longbow* is carefully handcrafted from a length of flexible green-tinted wood, etched in a variety of runic symbols, and strung with a dawnsilver bowstring. When you shoot the bow in rapid succession, the echoing chords generated by the bowstring form a haunting dirge that evokes the inevitable end of all things. If you have the [[Hunt Prey]] class feature, the weapon gains the *[[Thundering]]* rune on Strikes against your prey.

**Activate—Song of the Bow** `pf2:2` (concentration)

**Frequency** once per day

**Effect** You shoot an arrow thrumming with the song of the bow. Make a Strike with the bow that deals damage as normal. As long as the Strike isn't a critical failure, the arrow explodes in a @Template[emanation|distance:20] around your target, dealing @Damage[5d10[sonic]|options:area-damage] damage to creatures in the area, including the target, with a DC 28 [[Fortitude]] save. Any creature that critically fails is [[Deafened]] for 1 minute. If any creature in the area is [[Undetected]] or [[Unnoticed]] by you, you learn its location, making it [[Hidden]] to you instead.

**Source:** `= this.source` (`= this.source-type`)
